Identity/consciousness Blog Post (#841)
flying-sheep/phil.red: posts/2025-09-05-identity-illusion.rst

Identity is an illusion
=======================

I’ve been thinking a lot about the `teletransportation paradox`_.
As I’m not the first one to do so, I enjoyed the many takes by media creators.
Videos such as videos like John Weldon’s `To Be`_ or `the Trouble with Transporters`_ by CGP Grey;
comics like the very first Existential Comic `the Machine`_, or the many takes on `teleporter problems`_ by SMBC.
The first three are nice explainy ones that might clean up the residual confusion that might potentially remain after my upcoming explanation!
Skip to `the issues`_ if you clicked any of these links (except for the SMBC one) or already know

The basics
----------
Again, this is well explained by e.g. `the Machine`_, but here’s a quick summary:

Teleportation\ [#instant-tele]_ rips you apart atom/molecule by atom/molecule and puts you back together.

> Or in most variants, it doesn’t even use the same pieces, but entirely different ones.

Author: instead of "pieces" maybe "matter". 

```suggestion
In most variants, the reproduction doesn't even consist of the same matter, but rather an entirely distinct set of atoms/molecules.
```

Being turned into a fine dust is usually called “dying”, so isn’t that the case here?

Different media use different thought experiments to drive the point home,
like waiting a bit before dissolving the original,

> maybe long enough to ask them how they feel about being misted in a few seconds.

Author: ... about the imminent prospect of being misted
